noahpravecek: Testing? Is my audio working okay?
Joshua Rudolf: It is.
noahpravecek: Great.
noahpravecek: Thanks for having me.
Joshua Rudolf: Of course.
Joshua Rudolf: How's life, Noah?
noahpravecek: Doing pretty good. How are things on your end? Been a while since we chatted.
Joshua Rudolf: Yeah, doing good.
noahpravecek: Nice.
noahpravecek: Got any fun plans for the holidays?
Joshua Rudolf: Not at the moment. Maybe a last-minute trip somewhere, but…
Joshua Rudolf: So nice to not do anything, I guess.
noahpravecek: Yeah, that's nice as well. I'm going home to see family, so I'm excited about that. It's been, I guess, only a month since I've seen him, but still like to see him.
Joshua Rudolf: Yeah, yeah. Where is, where is home?
noahpravecek: So, I live in New York. I have family… I grew up near Chicago in the suburbs. My family moved into the city after myself and my siblings left.
noahpravecek: So, going back to Chicago, so it should be nice.
Joshua Rudolf: Suburbs?
noahpravecek: Not the burps, go on to Irving Park, that's where they moved after.
Joshua Rudolf: Oh, okay.
noahpravecek: They're the only people I've ever known to upsize, not downsize. When the kids moved out, they went from a 4,000 square foot house to, like, I think it's, like, 4,500 or 5,000 square foot loft, but it's all on one level. So there's no stairs, so they're like, it's better, there's no stairs, and it's, like.
noahpravecek: There's no stairs, there's, like, 25-foot ceilings, like, it's, like, not 25, but, like, probably 20 feet ceiling, it's…
noahpravecek: It's insane, but they're happy, which is all that matters.
Joshua Rudolf: Not a bad way to spend your retirement sort of years.
noahpravecek: Good.
Joshua Rudolf: Hey, everybody.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): eyes.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): New faces here, or new names in the group.
Friederike Ernst: I'm petrified.
Joshua Rudolf: I'm anonymous.
Friederike Ernst: I think.
Joshua Rudolf: Excited to have you, thanks for joining.
Joshua Rudolf: Good to have some fresh, fresh faces, fresh perspectives.
Joshua Rudolf: It's called… Bubble?
noahpravecek: Oh.
noahpravecek: Always good to get outside the bubble.
Joshua Rudolf: We'll start in a minute. Hey, Lumi.
Joshua Rudolf: I think with, this time of year, I might have a little bit lighter attendance.
Joshua Rudolf: But we'll see.
Joshua Rudolf: It shows up.
Joshua Rudolf: I think if Pepe joins from OpenZe… oh, there's Pepe. I think, we might, if it's okay, Noah, we might shuffle the schedule around a little bit, just so that Pepe can give a quick update on the OIF side of things. Is that okay? Just like a… I think maybe, Pepe, you just need, like, 5 minutes or less to give a quick.
noahpravecek: Yeah, that's all good.
Pepe Blasco: I'm flexible. Okay.
Pepe Blasco: But, yeah, just requested to share some updates on the broadcaster, and…
Pepe Blasco: I have to be fast, so just some context for those of you that are not familiar with Broadcaster. It's a protocol initially developed by the Arbitrum team, the Oxin Labs team, and it's meant to be a fully trustless message-passing system, so…
Pepe Blasco: Inside OIF, we are using this for… as an oracle. It's relatively slow, because it needs for settlements to… to be executed, so in a lot of cases, this means over 7 days of…
Pepe Blasco: confirmation for the Oracle to be viable, but…
Pepe Blasco: We are, obviously, depending on the network, that time can be smaller, and as you know, the time of roll-ups hopefully will be reduced in… in…
Pepe Blasco: Limit to long term.
Pepe Blasco: So, this was initially developed by Oxin Labs, by the Arbitrum Foundation, yeah, 2035. And we from Open 17 took over the final development and polishing of it, a couple of months ago. The initial,
Pepe Blasco: core contracts of the protocol have been audited, and I think the audit report will be public this week, for sure, so we can share that when it's ready. The architecture of the
Pepe Blasco: system basically requires a core contract, a broadcaster contract on each network, and then for each architecture of the networks to have a specific prover. So, we are… we've also developed provers for 6 networks, or 6 architectures, Arbitrum, Optimus.
Pepe Blasco: linear, CKSYSYNC, typo, and scroll. Those provers are…
Pepe Blasco: ending the development cycle right now, and are actively being tested in testnets. We'll probably do an audit in February.
Pepe Blasco: And after that will be deployed to mainnets. So…
Pepe Blasco: This is a fully decentralized protocol. Anyone will be able to deploy their
Pepe Blasco: own contracts and verify their own messages, Open Sappling will deploy the reference
Pepe Blasco: Contracts and provers to be… to be used, but again, any particular team that may be interested in running their own set of contracts for whatever reason will be able to do so.
Pepe Blasco: depending on the network, these messages are broadcasted and passed along automatically. Some networks basically put the status or the…
Pepe Blasco: information from the Layer 1 into the Layer 2 automatically, while others need a pusher.
Pepe Blasco: that pusher will also be available, and guides on how to transmit the pusher will be available for the public. So, the broadcaster protocol is likely gonna see
Pepe Blasco: like, real use cases in the first quarter of the year. If anyone is interested in tinkering around, playing around, experimenting with it.
Pepe Blasco: Right now, it's in a decent status, so that we can get started on testing testnets. So, if you're building on it, or you're interested in
Pepe Blasco: Exploring, breaking, auditing, testing, feel free to reach out to me.
Pepe Blasco: through Josh, or directly in Telegram, and we are happy to collaborate on that.
Pepe Blasco: Can you send some info on the testnet? I will… I will now share, the existing deployments, but there is no…
Pepe Blasco: And…
Pepe Blasco: kind of app to interact with these things. It's meant as an oracle, so anyone interested in interacting with the contracts will have to generate their own proofs, and
Pepe Blasco: it's not a lightweight protocol. It's pretty heavy, it comes… it's the drawbacks that comes with real decentralization and real trustlessness.
Pepe Blasco: Any questions?
Joshua Rudolf: Cool.
Joshua Rudolf: Thank you, Pepe. Appreciate the last minute jumping in. Excited to have this, and yeah, thanks to Arbitrum and everyone who's been a part of this. Excited to have it as part of the OIF, as the…
Joshua Rudolf: Yeah, Broadcaster, Oracle.
Joshua Rudolf: Cool, so maybe we can switch back. I think we'll have some more OIF updates later on in the call, but maybe we can switch…
Joshua Rudolf: back over to you, Noah, to share some, yeah, presentation I think you have prepared on the ZK Sync Interop.
noahpravecek: Sounds good. Glad to share.
noahpravecek: I just need to request the sharing thing.
Joshua Rudolf: Yeah, nice.
noahpravecek: Cool.
noahpravecek: Thanks.
noahpravecek: Okay.
noahpravecek: Do I not have systems enabled?
noahpravecek: Okay…
noahpravecek: I'm gonna have to quit and reopen Zoom.
Joshua Rudolf: Okay.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): Probably you don't need to. Just try. If it's macOS, it's a fake warning, just try.
noahpravecek: Okay, yeah, that worked.
Joshua Rudolf: Horace always comes through with that tip.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): It's so annoying, like, they've had this for years.
noahpravecek: Yeah, it is a bit silly.
noahpravecek: Yeah, excited to be presenting today. Today, I'll be talking about scaling Ethereum's liquidity with L1 Interop that is provided by ZK Stack. Our goal with this is to solve DeFi's structural cold start problem, and my background is I'm the Director of Interop on the product side at MetaLabs.
noahpravecek: So the current issue, and we see this with every single new chain, whether it's, an L2 or a L1, we saw off BarroChain, we saw off plasma, we've seen off all the different L2s, is every chain starts from zero currently.
noahpravecek: Every single application that you want on that chain needs to redeploy. We need to rebuild liquidity. They run these massive liquidity mining campaigns, where they spend tens, if not hundreds of millions of dollars to essentially subsidize DeFi liquidity.
noahpravecek: And you end up having very… Very…
noahpravecek: very mercenary capital that comes onto your blockchain, and gives you the appearance that your blockchain is succeeding, but when those incentives dry off.
noahpravecek: Ethereum still holds the majority of real, durable DeFi liquidity that stays for cycles, between cycles, essentially. So the structural cold start problem repeats across every single new ecosystem, and it's something we notice in our ecosystem as well as other ecosystems that we're launching as well.
noahpravecek: So, for the longest time, Ethereum.
noahpravecek: Ethereum has used L2s to scale its performance, but for the first time, L2s can now scale Ethereum liquidity via ZK Stack.
noahpravecek: So the reason why we're able to do this, and I'll go more into the tech part of it later, is we recently came out with the CKSYNC Atlas upgrade, which is our new upgrade that gives us even equivalence 15,000 transactions per second.
noahpravecek: One second, CK. Proving time and our proving costs have dropped dramatically.
noahpravecek: Have dropped dramatically as well.
noahpravecek: The second thing we recently came out with, and this has been in development for a while as well, alongside the Atlas upgrade.
noahpravecek: is something called sequencing private names. So it's the first blockchain platform to essentially unite the verifiability and interoperability that we've come to love of public chains with the control, privacy, and compliance needs for institutions to actually operate on-chain.
noahpravecek: So our solution essentially marries Ethereum with CK proofs by combining the most neutral global settlement layer with the strongest guarantees and the largest network effects with CK proofs to allow institutions to operate compliantly while still having interoperability and allowing for high throughput at a low cost.
noahpravecek: So what L1 Interop is, is the first thing that we demoed a couple of weeks ago was users on any ZK chain, it can now deposit into Aave on Ethereum.
noahpravecek: borrow assets like Go or USDC or any other asset on Aave, and access Ethereum DeFi without switching networks. They maintain one wallet, one identity, and one streamlined user experience, and private teams allow institutions, when they're operating their own private
noahpravecek: execution environment to access these markets as well. So instead of each individual institution needing to have a forked instance of Aave, Morpho or any of these other large DeFi protocols, they can now tap into Ethereum DeFi from their L2,
noahpravecek: Allowing them to do things that were previously not possible, because typically institutions do not want to operate on public chains showing off everything that they're doing. But if you can allow them to operate privately for the things that need to remain privately.
noahpravecek: private, essentially, but it actually still has happened now on DeFi. We've seen that they are very excited to use that productive overall, and we think that's how you bring
noahpravecek: institutions back to DeFi, essentially.
noahpravecek: So the way it works at a high level is the user signs two transactions on the L2. Transaction 1 is essentially having your funds get withdrawn to a cryptographically bound aliased account on the L1,
noahpravecek: And the second transaction is an interop bundle that contains a list of L1 DeFi actions. Optionally, you can also bridge tokens back to the L2 automatically as well.
noahpravecek: So the way it works…
noahpravecek: And this diagram just essentially goes over exactly what I said before, is to the user, they just fund their ALAS account.
noahpravecek: In this case, with ETH.
noahpravecek: They execute the action, which is depositing into Aave on L1, getting a real position, they receive the A token in that account on L1, and then they can view a unified balance. So the user, it's like they're never leaving home, and, well, this work still happens on Ethereum, so there's no commingling of user funds as well, which is crucial for systems like this to scale.
noahpravecek: So, the reason why this is now possible is due to us having much faster CK proof generation and settlement than in the past. So, airborne proofs typically can be generated around one second… oh, are there comments.
noahpravecek: Oh, got it Sorry. Sorry, chat.
noahpravecek: And withdrawals can finalize on L1 in minutes. We also have a multi-implementation sequencer, which hardens against bugs and attacks, and the alias account is a deterministic L1 address mapped to a user's L2 account, and they… it doesn't require new keys, and it doesn't require another custodian on top, and it's very easy to support as well.
noahpravecek: And the interop transaction bundles can essentially contain arbitrary actions. So in this demo we did with Aave, it would be relatively straightforward to do it with Morpho, Uniswap, Pendle, anything else you want to do on Ethereum. It preserves the full Ethereum visibility, and the bundle is executed via the alias account.
noahpravecek: And it's a really seamless UX, so these borrowed tokens can be bridged to the L2, and the user never has to leave the chain, never has to handle all one gas or accounts manually.
noahpravecek: And…
noahpravecek: With Prividiums, this allows institutions to get private access to lending markets, liquidity pools, yield markets, usage of existing protocols, not forks, internal workflows stay private, while the market actions settle out there.
noahpravecek: They can also do things such as optimizing collateral for treasury and credit funding operations, moving funds between L2 and L1 in minutes, and accessing intraday liquidity and hedging capabilities, private operations on L2, market interactions on L1.
noahpravecek: And the thing that I'm really excited about as well is really around the trading use cases and more advanced use cases, I would say, where you can essentially run all of your
noahpravecek: more computationally expensive logic on the L2, like, a matching engine, credit… credit systems, like, order books, things such as that on the L2, but still access collateral on ETHL1, so that allows for
noahpravecek: essentially, there's a structural mismatch right now between ETHL1 liquidity costs and ETHL2. We actually went and we spoke to all the different teams that run the liquidity farming campaigns and run the different Vault systems, and what we realized is if you look at Morpho and Aave on ETHL1,
noahpravecek: They're… users are fine receiving a lower rate on those protocols than they are if they're on an L2.
noahpravecek: So if you're on an… if you are on L2 or… or an…
noahpravecek: or an Alta one, you always have to pay greater than the Aave or Morpho rate that is on Ethereum, because there's the existing… not existing, there's the extra risk of me moving capital to your chain, and there's quite a few LPs or liquid providers that don't want to move to those chains.
noahpravecek: So due to this, you can actually get capital for cheaper, so this offers a structural advantage for L2s that tap into the system, because they're able to essentially get capital that would be buying at a lower rate compared to every other alt-chain system.
noahpravecek: Or are there all two?
noahpravecek: And long-term, we believe this allows Ethereum to really become the capital hub.
noahpravecek: CK chains and private AMs allow for sovereign and sometimes private compute. Ethereum gets the shared settlement and liquidity base, and usually you get the best of both worlds, having institutional privacy, public market depth, and a unified ecosystem, rather than fragmented islands.
noahpravecek: And… Frequently asked questions as well.
noahpravecek: Today, a separate account finalizes withdrawals and executes bundles, but soon applications will be able to charge L1 gas on L2.
noahpravecek: Supporting new protocols is very straightforward. It's generic, so it's very quick to add them.
noahpravecek: Protocol teams can also do this themselves. If you are a protocol team interested in this, feel free to reach out. We'd be glad to support. And it only costs a couple dollars per transaction. The main delay is Ethereum finality, and the final, and essentially the frequency of settlement as well.
noahpravecek: And one transaction is coming soon, that will likely be done with an account abstraction.
noahpravecek: System.
noahpravecek: So yeah, that's everything. Thanks so much for having me.
Joshua Rudolf: Questions for Noah?
Joshua Rudolf: Maybe one question to start off. You mentioned it here a little bit, but…
Joshua Rudolf: I guess, yeah. Can you share more around how fast this… like, it sounds like this is sort of on the order of minutes rather than seconds.
Joshua Rudolf: For most blows today, bottlenecked by the L1.
Joshua Rudolf: Will that, in practice, prevent a lot of the usefulness, if this is minutes? Like, are you… how do you think about this, and users' willingness to wait minutes for certain flows?
noahpravecek: Yeah, so on that side, the primary customer for this is actually institutions. The majority of ZKSYNC L2s are… that are coming out that are new L2s are using our private idiom stack, so they're institutions that are managing collateral. So for them.
noahpravecek: When we're able to tell them, okay, you can now manage your lending workflows, and it's gonna take 10 minutes, rather than them having to call their lawyer,
noahpravecek: enter in a new counterparty agreement and go through all of the headache. Like, currently lending in traditional markets, it just takes a lot longer. It's not as programmatic. So the fact that they can do this for any asset at any time, and set this up in a matter of minutes, is, like.
noahpravecek: a massive change, and much faster, so for crypto people, it's obviously something where it's, like, it's not as fast as they're used to, but I think over time, the bet that we're making is the majority of new capital and new users coming into blockchain systems won't necessarily be a crypto native, and it'll also be used more and more so in a backend, like, capacity.
noahpravecek: So, if it's a back-end capacity, you don't necessarily mind as much about things like this, because it's so much faster than your current system.
Joshua Rudolf: Yep.
Joshua Rudolf: Chris.
Joshua Rudolf: You bet.
noahpravecek: Earth.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): On the, 1 second latency within the cluster,
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): what makes it such that, I guess it's, like, a ZK stack, L2 or L3, getting, like, a proof done for, I guess, some significant gas? Why is it so much faster?
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): than actually proving to the L1, in terms of, prover time.
noahpravecek: Yeah, so the way that…
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): Due to, like, hashing? Like, ZK friendliness? Where is this big discrepancy from?
noahpravecek: Yeah, so the reason why is there… you can obviously settle to the L1 more frequently, as well, over time. There…
noahpravecek: what the gateway is doing is essentially aggregating the proofs, so when you need to aggregate proofs across multiple chains, that's always going to take a while. And there's also… within our system, we essentially…
noahpravecek: have two different types of proofs. We have the fry proofs, which are very fast…
noahpravecek: fast, and then we have the snark proof, which is…
noahpravecek: the proof that gets verified on L1. The snorkeification process takes
noahpravecek: a couple of minutes, currently. So that… that obviously causes delays for things.
noahpravecek: Gotcha, thank you.
Joshua Rudolf: Couple of questions in the chat, but maybe, Lumi, do you want to read out your question?
Lumi | Offchain Labs: Yeah, so the chains are settling to ZK Gateway as pseudo-L3s, so you… basically, the chain operator or the user needs to wait for ZK Gateway to settle onto L1 before any actions can be executed, right?
noahpravecek: Yep.
Lumi | Offchain Labs: How frequently does ZKK waste at all currently?
noahpravecek: It's… for us right now, CK Gateway will be settling quite frequently.
Lumi | Offchain Labs: Isn't there still a 3-hour withdrawal period? Like, artificial?
noahpravecek: Once we had had…
noahpravecek: Now that we have the multiple implementation of sequencers, we don't have the 3-hour withdrawal window delay anymore.
Kalman Lajko: just to quickly end up here, I think Lumi…
Kalman Lajko: knows the error implementation more, which has this, finalized withdrawal, but the new zkSync gateway will be on the Atlas upgrade, so…
Kalman Lajko: It's not really relevant here.
noahpravecek: Thanks, Common.
noahpravecek: Arjun?
noahpravecek: I believe I'm pronounced that.
Anjan (Avail): Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's right. So, I did not follow much development of the Providium, but can you give me a thought, maybe a gist of how does it achieve the privacy guarantees, or what are the things that it offers, and how does it do that?
noahpravecek: Yeah, so for private idioms.
noahpravecek: Prividiums has a role-based access control system on top of it, so it gives you privacy in the same way that you would have privacy in, like, a traditional database. So you're able to essentially choose which users
noahpravecek: see which different smart contracts, and you can do different roles for different users, you can even allow for different applications to see different smart contracts as well, operating on the private end. It really allows for a much more
noahpravecek: Granular level of control for the chain operator, that previously wasn't available.
noahpravecek: Hope that helps.
Anjan (Avail): Yeah, but does it use, anyhow, stealth addresses for transactional linkability, maybe?
noahpravecek: Privadium is an enterprise product, so it's not necessarily doing privacy like Zcache, it's more privacy like an institutional level of privacy, so privacy like Snapchat or email.
Anjan (Avail): Okay, makes sense. Thank you.
noahpravecek: Yeah, no problem.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): Sit.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): So that means you guys are not using hiding, like, you are not using ZK, Snox, you are just using Snox, or stocks, right?
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): for.
noahpravecek: And you're shooting… For Prividium in particular, we… it is a ZK roll-up. It's…
noahpravecek: It's a ZK rope that is a Validium.
noahpravecek: And the data is held off-chain, and then we have a role-based access control system to essentially allow enterprises to choose who can see which things on their chain, and they can define user groups, different roles, different… even contract-level permissioning.
noahpravecek: So, that's the primary use case for it. It's not necessarily designed to be used like a mixer or anything like that.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): Gotcha. So it means, in particular, you are posting a normal SNARC 2011, which leaks information about what happened, but you assume, because it's, like, in practice, quite little, that it's private enough. And you basically.
noahpravecek: It doesn't…
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): restrict access on RPC level.
noahpravecek: It does not leak information to what happened. The way that our system works is you are not leaking information about what happened on… on, essentially, the execution.
noahpravecek: of the L2 itself.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): Okay, so it's a different prover than the app.
noahpravecek: It's not a… It is the airbender prover.
noahpravecek: The way that we have designed this system is any personal identifying information for the different institutions that are operating their own private idiom is kept private and kept on their own service.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): Okay, so maybe this is just a theoretical nuance then. So is it adequate to say the RPC is the gateway to, like, basically authorizing this user to access this data and another user to access another data?
noahpravecek: Yeah, they get… the RPC for the private idiom is where all of the rules… rules are set.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): Makes sense.
Joshua Rudolf: Mmm.
Joshua Rudolf: We're getting a little bit low on time, maybe I can read… there's one question from Frangio in the chat, I'll read it. How many of these providiums are there in Prad currently, or coming soon?
noahpravecek: So we currently have one live already with a company called Memento that's operating it for Deutsche Bank, and we have
noahpravecek: Other major Prividium announcements will be coming out in Q1, so we have a lot more that are on the way.
noahpravecek: So yeah, most of them are going live in Q1. We have a few that came out that were recently announced, such as LNET, that's doing
noahpravecek: that's launching on private aim at LATAM. We have a lot more that are essentially coming on in Q2. Due to the nature of most of these customers, we can't say them publicly until they're announced, just due to NDAs.
Joshua Rudolf: Got it.
Joshua Rudolf: Thank you, Noah. This was great.
noahpravecek: Thanks for having me.
Joshua Rudolf: Appreciate you coming on.
Joshua Rudolf: Cool.
Joshua Rudolf: Next up on the agenda, OIF, some more, updates, I think, on that side of things, and I will kick it over to Orca, if you're available.
Orca 0x: Hey, yeah, sure, how much… how much time,
Orca 0x: Is that just for context, if you said we were a bit behind?
Joshua Rudolf: I think we can… yeah, we got at least 10 minutes, let's say, here, for… Yeah.
Orca 0x: Cool, let me… probably will not reach that, I guess I'm gonna run through a couple of things. Can you see…
Orca 0x: this screen.
Joshua Rudolf: Yep.
Orca 0x: Okay, great. So, I guess just a few things, OIF-related, and then one interop address thing, just to make folks aware.
Orca 0x: Alright, so first is asset discovery, so interop providers invariably have an API for their chain or asset support, so… and… but this wasn't part of the OIF specs, sort of API specs currently, which just cover getting quotes and sending orders.
Orca 0x: So we've added this to the OIF specs, and it'd just be good to get feedback if you're a person who've either
Orca 0x: has, such an API, or, like, has opinions, so it's pretty simple. It's based on the solver, the existing OIF solver implementation, just as a starting point, but, there's probably room for a bit of bike shedding, but also just be interested in,
Orca 0x: People see it because you see different approaches. Some people have a separate endpoint for chains and for tokens, and some support routes, specific routes. So making people aware of this and soliciting feedback.
Orca 0x: Similarly, we're, at Wonderland, we're working on the cross-chain module of the interop SDK, we're trying it out on different OF-compliant interop solutions,
Orca 0x: with our… with a sort of OIF provider, which basically implements the spec.
Orca 0x: We've existed… found some areas where existing fighters are not aligned with the IF specs, so I think that's one where we're talking to OpenZeppelin about the Solver and aggregator, and we've also been trying out, Lifi. We'll be reaching out to teams to check if things are expected or unexpected in terms of any, like.
Orca 0x: digression from the spec, but if there are other folks who are running OIF-compliant solvers or endpoints, we'd love to take them for a spin. So, as I said, we're aware of
Orca 0x: Open Zeppelin and,
Orca 0x: Lifi, but let us know if there are others, that we can be testing with.
Orca 0x: I'll keep… I'll keep rolling,
Orca 0x: in the same vein, in the SDK, one thing we're looking at is,
Orca 0x: quote validation, so this is when you're actually interacting with an API, you'll send maybe a
Orca 0x: an intent, and you'll get back a quote and something to sign. Obviously, there's a risk there if it's a server you don't trust, because they could give you back anything to sign. So one thing we're looking at adding to the SDK is obviously sort of client-side validation.
Orca 0x: So if…
Orca 0x: Anyone else is thinking about those kind of things, that's passing whether it's a transaction to make on-chain, if it's a user-submitted,
Orca 0x: intent, or if it's a 712 thing to sign, making sure that you're actually, signing something that you're happy with that actually meets your initial requirements. We'd be interested to talk to any other teams who've thought about that problem, not just trusting what you get back from an API.
Orca 0x: And then lastly,
Orca 0x: 7930, so this is in the slightly different thread, but related, so interoperable addresses. This is the spec which has undergone a lot of revision over the last couple of months, thanks to the, I think, the unruggable folks who are on the call.
Orca 0x: who've, been collaborating with us on this. So we'd love to hear any feedback. If folks, someone read the spec a little while ago and thought it wasn't, wasn't that clear, like, hopefully it's better now. I think I did just want to draw this group's…
Orca 0x: attention to, one thing which is a bit under discussion, so, currently 7930 defines both the interoperable address, which is binary, machine-readable.
Orca 0x: would look something like this, if you were to print it out. And it also defines interoperable names, that's a sort of, complementary,
Orca 0x: string, which is passable by humans, I think there's some debate over whether it's readable by humans or not. So here you've got the, address, you've got the,
Orca 0x: separators, and then you've got CIP identifiers and a checksum.
Orca 0x: And then the other, interoperable address, ELC, makes them more human-readable by introducing ENS support for addresses and chains. And the point of discussion has been
Orca 0x: whether having both the address and the name in the same ELC is confusing, or potentially confusing for people who might be looking to either
Orca 0x: use the standard in other ELCs or just implement things. So again, welcome, folks.
Orca 0x: I guess we're posting on the forum to notify the recent changes, to get any eyes of people who haven't looked at the spec for a while.
Orca 0x: But we'd also, yeah, we're thinking about this, or we've been discussing this specific question, just be good to see if there are any other opinions.
Orca 0x: Out there.
Orca 0x: And that's… I'll stop sharing and look at the chat if there is any… Chat.
Orca 0x: And yes, thanks, folks, for sharing the ERC's Frangio.
frangio: Can you clarify what's being discussed? So the interoperable names are currently in 7930, and you are discussing whether to remove those?
frangio: Annel them elsewhere?
Orca 0x: Yes, I think… I don't know if Prem…
Orca 0x: is on… on the call, I think he is. But I think,
Orca 0x: Yeah, this was based on some of his feedback, which was just saying that having the names and the addresses in the same thing then made it a bit unclear what a 7930 address
Orca 0x: meant, which of those sort of formats it meant. And so I think that there are obviously, like, a couple potential approaches, from where we are today.
Orca 0x: But, yeah, maybe Prem, if you wanna… Outline your case.
Premm.eth: Can you hear me?
Orca 0x: I can.
Premm.eth: Okay, good. Yes, so I, think this, discussion started, I think Teddy had, posted something about
Premm.eth: I'm, clarifying the difference between the interoperable address and the interoperable maze.
Premm.eth: And, my opinion was that it should be very clear when someone says 7930 address.
Premm.eth: what they mean. And, I noticed, in the 8092 spec.
Premm.eth: that, Steve Kaftman of Base Names was going to,
Premm.eth: a particularly high degree of intention to specify the binary presentation versus the interoperable name version, and I just thought this would be a burden going forward for people who are having to specify 7930 addresses.
Premm.eth: And it should be a very easy, interpretation. So, if we move the, interoperable names portion to 7928, 7828,
Premm.eth: Then it would be clear that we have a binary specification, and then a more human-readable specification, in the 7828.
Joshua Rudolf: Does that make sense for Angio? Anyone else? I think it's maybe hard to get up to speed with all of this on a call. Maybe we can take the discussion
Joshua Rudolf: to the Telegram group, but… Yeah.
Joshua Rudolf: Okay.
Joshua Rudolf: Anything else to touch on this topic? Orca, Pram, anyone else?
Orca 0x: I think that was it. There are a few links.
Orca 0x: Which I'll share in the channel, if anyone does want to follow up. As I said, that was mostly a call for input. And yeah, as Teddy says, the forum, I think, probably is the best place
Orca 0x: Going forward. And as I say, we're trying to obviously, as with all these kind of things, balance,
Orca 0x: Balance speed, but obviously also quality, so, we just want to make sure we get that… get that right.
Joshua Rudolf: Yeah, yeah, thanks, Teddy, for flagging it. Take the discussion to the forum, and we'll try to balance…
Joshua Rudolf: Getting things right with endless, discussion threads?
Joshua Rudolf: And yeah, thanks again to Unruggable, Wonderland, Orca, everyone for jumping in. I'm excited to have these released.
Joshua Rudolf: to the public very soon. Interoperable addresses.
Joshua Rudolf: Cool.
Joshua Rudolf: Okay, so I think we got through…
Joshua Rudolf: what was scheduled on the agenda. One thing that I added as just an opportunity for any open discussion, I'm not sure exactly maybe where this will go, but, for anyone to sort of share their thoughts, I know there's a few folks here who have been thinking quite a bit about this, the topic of,
Joshua Rudolf: full synchronous composability in Ethereum, sort of the value, the urgency, the priority, how should we be thinking about this as an ecosystem, the question of…
Joshua Rudolf: async interop, and does this actually get us most of what we need? Sort of a cost-benefit question here for the ecosystem. Yeah, we of course won't settle this in 20 minutes here, but it'd be great to maybe just get… use this as a opportunity for people to share their thoughts, and maybe we can
Joshua Rudolf: yeah, try to move this question into a more productive, place together. And anyone want to jump in? I know,
Joshua Rudolf: Alan, you know, you shared, I think, a really great research
Joshua Rudolf: ETH Research piece on this not too long ago.
Joshua Rudolf: I encourage folks to read that. Maybe if you want to drop the link, or I can find a link to that. Maybe if you want to start with, like, a quick… I don't know if you're able to sort of, like, summarize it in a minute or two, but maybe just sort of, you know, sharing whatever you want in terms of your perspective on…
Joshua Rudolf: On why you're bullish, us, prior to us as an ecosystem, putting much more, resources into synchronous composability.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: Hi, everyone. Josh, thank you for having me. Yeah, I would love to kind of open up the discussion. So, I've been thinking a lot about Interop for the past, 6 or 8 months, and obviously we've came along,
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: a great deal of, of work has been done, intense today is, is the kind of the premier framework. But I, I would, I would, maybe, kind of.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: So just thinking about two things. One is,
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: like everything with Ethereum, we kind of, going from the philosophical to the practical, or the engineering, right? So, I would start with the philosophical question. What is exactly Ethereum? Is it Ethereum DL1? Is it Ethereum? The greater Ethereum, as I call it, but basically Ethereum in all of its roll-ups?
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: And so on, and I think that the way I… I look at.
Thomas Clowes | Unruggable - ENS: There's no other tool.
Thomas Clowes | Unruggable - ENS: I'm just gonna leave, but I'm not… Sorry.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: So…
Joshua Rudolf: I think you…
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: Oh, yeah, okay. So, the way I look at it is, the real power behind Ethereum is its network effects, users' depths, and really the flexibility of what it can do.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: And so, I would suggest that, or at least I view it as Ethereum, or the greater Ethereum, meaning that Ethereum DL1 and all of its roll-ups should feel like one big execution environment, meaning that if I'm a user, or if I'm a developer, I shouldn't be experiencing moving between domains as if they're completely separate chains. And I think today, it's very much the case.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: We've gotten really good at moving, value between
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: chains, not necessarily just even within Ethereum, between Ethereum and even other chains as well, Solana and so on. We got really good at that, but also, we got pretty worse at fragmentation. I think that's a kind of a core question I've been battling with.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: And I don't think intense alone or really fast asynchronous message passing can solve.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: if the goal, at least for me, is kind of this one unified execution environment where me as a developer, I can do arbitrary read and write, bidirectional arbitrary read and writes between, different roll-ups and Ethereum and roll-ups, and have it in a stateful way.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: I don't think asynchronous message passing or intense bring us to that point, and so that's what kind of piqued my interest in synchronous composability.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: maybe we can follow up with that, kind of, what it can enable us and so on, but I want to suggest that
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: A lot of it has been done the past two years with synchronous composabilities, so a lot of the, kind of,
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: Notions of what it is kind of actually changed the past 2 years, and more specifically, the past 12 months.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: both research on interop, synchronous composability interop has gotten really good, and also, ZK, VMs gotten to a point where it's actually feasible to do, I think, in a way that is not intrusive.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: And, and, and, and, and actually, from an engineering point of view and a product point of view, makes, makes sense.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: And so that's kind of how I look at it. yeah, I mean…
Joshua Rudolf: What do you think, Alan, about the sort of the fundamental tensions that Mark from Optimism brought up in the chat around this idea of
Joshua Rudolf: Synchronous composability, the challenge around extending that across governance boundaries.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: Yep.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: So, I think that a lot has been done in that area. So, it used to be the case that synchronous composability was imagined or thought of as shared sequencing.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: So, in that context, I do believe this is not feasible and not something that we can bring to market. Roll-ups need independent sequencers for many reasons.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: But research and work have been done to actually, not require that anymore.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: So, if you guys are familiar with the Fabric team and their scope framework that they released, I think, around 3 or 4 months ago, which is really, really cool, our work at Compose and others, we don't talk about shared sequencing anymore.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: Everyone has different approaches, but I do think there's a feasible way forward with synchronous composability, which does not require compromising on who runs the sequencer.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: Meaning that roll-ups can have independent sequencers. Furthermore, roll-ups and sequencers of those roll-ups
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: can actually decide, how they manage, interrupt in that sense. So, for example, if you don't want to interrupt with another chain, you can make that decision, and it's a simple config on your sequencer. And so those things came a really long way.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: And I think that kind of puts it in a really good place from, again, from an engineering and feasibility point of view, to actually be adopted, because it's much more lightweight than it used to be.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: In terms of, kind of, the infrastructure to acquire and so on.
Joshua Rudolf: I have other questions, but does someone else want to jump in here? Either… on either side of the…
Joshua Rudolf: Debate.
Joshua Rudolf: Anyone from… there's a few folks from NOSA's team.
Joshua Rudolf: Couldn't… I don't know, Sebastian or Frederick, if…
Friederike Ernst: Yeah, so, hi, I'm Friedrika, I'm one of the founders of Gnosis. I'm here for the first time, so, good to see you all. Yes, we were invited to, this group and this call because we've, recently started looking into
Friederike Ernst: Went more seriously, started looking into synchronous composability, with, real-time proving, as a,
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: Cool.
Friederike Ernst: tenet of that. I 100% agree with Elon that, synchronous composability is where it's at. So, kind of, I… I mean.
Friederike Ernst: we, we are big on intents. We kind of build cow, and so kind of, like, it's… it's not like, I don't, I don't want to dunk on that, but if you, want to, if you want the wider Ethereum ecosystem to feel like one ecosystem and not, a…
Friederike Ernst: fragmented.
Friederike Ernst: federation of different, ecosystems. For instance, if you want to be able to have an identity.
Friederike Ernst: On, say, a very privacy-respecting
Friederike Ernst: network and, interact with, dApps on other networks without kind of porting all of that over.
Friederike Ernst: I think, I think kind of being able to compose synchronously, so kind of being able to call a smart contract on network A from network B, and vice versa, is
Friederike Ernst: Absolutely key, and I think there are different ways of actually getting there. The one that,
Friederike Ernst: we, together with, Jordy from the ZISC team, kind of developed, functions somewhat differently from Elon's, but kind of
Friederike Ernst: Ultimately, if… if we end up
Friederike Ernst: getting one of these solutions, I think the ecosystem will be so much better off, because, it's… it's not just about
Friederike Ernst: shared liquidity. Kind of… yeah, we can… I mean, with kind of intense frameworks, you can move
Friederike Ernst: you can move tokens over fairly quickly, you still need liquidity providers and so on, but I mean.
Friederike Ernst: it works, kind of, Kaosoft also works, but for more involved business logic that goes beyond sending tokens.
Friederike Ernst: You need… you need synchronous composability.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): Can you give an example for what use cases or what flows you would have in mind that would, that would actually require synchrony?
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): Rather than just composability.
Friederike Ernst: Well, everything where, kind of, you have… where you want one protocol to interact with another protocol, and they're not on the same roll-up, right? So, for instance, if I, if I have, say, Aztec ID on Aztec…
Friederike Ernst: and I want to do something on, say, on ZK Sync, then, kind of, I… I need to be able to, kind of, prove my identity for certain…
Friederike Ernst: for certain use cases, kind of in an atomic transaction in order to do something, and this is only possible if you have synchronicity.
noahpravecek: But I'.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): Why do you care about this being atomic? Why not just send a message via the canonical bridge that takes, let's say, 1 hour to finalize on the L1, and then read it from the second roll-up within 16 minutes?
Friederike Ernst: But that's a terrible user experience.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: 60 minutes is forever.
Friederike Ernst: Yeah.
Friederike Ernst: that's a terrible user experience, so if you just want to do something on another network that requires proving your identity, you don't want to wait for 60 minutes for that. I mean, that's… yeah, I mean, currently people have to do this, and I think, kind of, the one argument that I hear against it is that, kind of, current dApps do not require this, but current dApps do not require this because it doesn't exist.
Friederike Ernst: would be… That's my point.
noahpravecek: But to push back on that, like, for identity in particular.
noahpravecek: if you want to verify identity on-chain, you're doing some form of CKKYC, you're going to need a verifier for that identity. Why can't you just deploy that contract on the other chain that you need to prove your identity on?
Friederike Ernst: Because, kind of, identity is much more than, kind of, just
Friederike Ernst: I mean, identity is also just an example here, right? So, kind of, I go into, kind of, the explanation for the identity, example, but kind of happy to, kind of, give more examples, too. So, kind of, an identity is, in some way, it's a collection of attestations, right? Kind of like, what part of my identity, kind of, I, prove?
Friederike Ernst: to what application should be, should be on me. And, kind of depending on what I do, I might actually have to prove different things, right? Kind of like, I might have to prove, that I'm above 18, I might have to prove…
Friederike Ernst: that I am a citizen of Germany, I might have to prove that I have more than XYZ amount in assets, so I'm an accredited investor, whatever. I mean, there's different, there's different facets.
Friederike Ernst: Of your identity, and it's, to me, very… identity is not a one-size-fits-all.
Friederike Ernst: Topic.
noahpravecek: Yeah, I get that, but I…
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: Guys.
noahpravecek: I've just… I struggle to see a use case for a sync composed build outside of, like, cross-chain flash zones. I've just…
noahpravecek: I used to work at a company that its whole point was trying to get synchronous composability, and I…
noahpravecek: adopted. Like, anybody that's been on these calls for a few years can tell you that, like, I was very bullish on synchronous possibility for a really long time.
noahpravecek: and now I'm working on a protocol that's focused primarily on async, and I think, in general, it's just the majority of synchronous composability use cases can be done with async atomic interop.
noahpravecek: And as more… privacy-preserving
noahpravecek: tech needs to be adopted in crypto, I think sequence composability also gets harder and harder to adopt, because doing anything at the sequencer level, I think, just becomes more and more difficult.
noahpravecek: to get adopted for synchronous composability, because I think, in general, expecting…
noahpravecek: Expecting, like, financial institutions to want to use a shared sequencer, or, like.
noahpravecek: shared structures like that. I think they're just much more concerned on
noahpravecek: what is… what does settlement actually mean here? What does finality actually mean here? And I think that…
noahpravecek: In general, it's…
noahpravecek: I think shared solo solutions are more likely to get adopted for the long term compared to shared sequencing or synchronous composability solutions.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: But I think we need to get off the table the shared sequencing part, because that's really, you know, a two-year-ago kind of approach.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: We don't have that anymore. We do have solutions for, kind of, keeping sequencers intact, but what I want to say in terms of
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: kind of the use cases which kind of debate always comes about. There's a lot of things we're doing in Ethereum which enable new things to happen. Nobody's asking, no DAP is asking for faster finality. They don't care about it.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: But we still do that. No DAP is asking for post-quantum signatures. They don't really care about it, but we still do that. I think the thing here is that, what is Ethereum exactly? If we require developers to redeploy their apps 30 times on different chains.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: I don't think this is kind of the vision of Ethereum we want, right? If users move between chains, and moving between Ethereum and Solana and Ethereum and Base feels exactly the same thing from a UX point of view.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: I don't think this is Ethereum at all. And in terms of how urgent this is, I would put kind of this as kind of a…
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: a point of reference, right? We're all kind of, you know, a crypto trader is outraged with the tempo and arcs of the world, right? But I think we're missing a big question. Why did they decide, which are, you know, both of them are really hardcore Ethereum projects at the beginning. Why did they decide to do an L1?
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: There's two reasons I can think of. Number one is they want to control their infrastructure.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: But, this is also true for the L2. They can still control their infrastructure. The second thing is, in my opinion, is that…
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: spinning up an L2 is as hard as spinning up an L1 today, because when you spin out an L2, you need to recreate an entire ecosystem. You need to convince major dApps to redeploy their daps, you need to convince solvers to connect to you, liquidity providers, and so on. And so…
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: it's not just about what exactly is the use case, it's also about the things it hinders. It hinders L2 advancements, because it's very hard to spin up new L2s. And so, for me, the urgency comes from not necessarily the things that dApp developers are asking or not asking today, it's also from the things we as a community lose.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: the fact that Tempo and ARK are not an L2, in my opinion, is a really big loss for Ethereum. And in my opinion, if we would have had synchronous composability.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: The reasons for them to become an L1 would have been much harder to explain to the board of directors, because the network effect of being out of Ethereum is so strong.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: And so that also goes back to the urgency part. I do think it's a philosophical and engineering question we need to ask ourselves. It's not just about who is asking what, because those things are not available right now, and so people don't even know how to ask for that.
Joshua Rudolf: Right.
Lumi | Offchain Labs: I never liked the argument that we're enabling new programming paradigms, and that's why we should have
Lumi | Offchain Labs: synchronous composability. The only answer anyone can ever give me of why we really need synchronous composability is flash loans, and even that you can do asynchronously. Like, the examples that you point out in this ETH research post where people give, like.
Lumi | Offchain Labs: needing to deploy the same dApps over and over again on chains, well, they probably shouldn't do that, right? You don't need a Uniswap on every single protocol if you're able to do cross-chain swaps well and cheaply, right? So not every L2 should be a copy of every other L2. You can start having, like, more specialized L2s.
Lumi | Offchain Labs: So I'm not… I'm not throwing a big bone in this. If we solve, like, synchronous composability in a way that scales.
Lumi | Offchain Labs: Which is the real question. Most, like, no distributed computer system I know of in real life is synchronous. Like, the internet didn't scale like that. No other network scaled to mass
Lumi | Offchain Labs: So I think the real question is scale. The application can absolutely be developed asynchronously, and not every change should be a copy of every other chain. Like, you have deep liquidity chains like Arbitrum that it makes more sense to swap on than your random new L2.
Friederike Ernst: What do you…
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: So, I would…
Friederike Ernst: Think… sorry.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: So I would say that almost every BFT protocol we have is at some point synchronous in times where it's kind of a happy flow, and partially synchronous in other times.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: Synchronous composability does not require
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: synchronicity between chains. They do not require the same block production, the same sequencer, or even matching up when blocks are produced, or CK proofs for those blocks are produced.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: We've moved past those points. We do have the research and kind of engineering behind to decouple those things and make it, in my opinion, scalable.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: Going back to the point of dApp developers.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: But that's kind of the reality of the thing. Dapp developers are redeploying their dApps a million times over, fragmenting their user base, popping up their ops expenses and complexities. That's not because they want to, it's because for them, in order to touch individual domains, they have to redeploy their dApps, because each chain is its own thing. They're not part of Ethereum.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: They're settled on Ethereum, but they don't feel as part of Ethereum. And so I think that, and also goes back to the question of, you know, how many roll-ups do we want, how much competition we want?
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: I think it's not just about flash loans, it's about everything. Why do we need an interrupt vision where it's basically based on intermediaries?
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: and liquidity. It kind of goes against what Ethereum tries to be. Are we actually saying that the future of Interop is solvers and liquidity for the top 4 or 5
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: Tokens? What if I'm token number 50 on CMC, or token number 100? Who will provide liquidity for me?
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: So I'm not part of the L2 vision. I mean, it's very problematic. And again, I'm not dunking on anything. I think interrupt with intense is extremely important. There's things you cannot do with synchronous composability, but it's equally important to recognize that there's things you cannot do with intense.
Friederike Ernst: like calling a smart contract from another smart contract on a different network. I mean, if you, kind of, if you look at, the ways that DApps today interact on the same network, if… I mean.
Friederike Ernst: if they couldn't do that in the same block, I mean, you'd lose so much. So, and I think, kind of, we're losing
Friederike Ernst: out on that in, in the wider Ethereum ecosystem between different L2s.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): Well, you don't need synchrony for that. Like, you can… of course, there's things that you can't do with intents, and you can have…
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): Asynchronous, at an arbitrarily fast, down to real time.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): Composability, and have all of that.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): And it's well easier to actually.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: Yeah, but, but, but, but, so…
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: So I would argue that a really, really fast, I think, is as complicated as synchronous composability, without atomicity guarantees, and without the bi-directional
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: optionality of it, meaning that each step is its own thing. It's very hard to compose things when each step is… has its own latency, inclusion time, and so on and so forth. And so…
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: again, I think it goes… for me, it goes back to the question, are roll-ups part of Ethereum, or their own chains? Asynchronous… really fast asynchronous composability is equally viable between Ethereum and Solana. So, is there no difference between a roll-up on Ethereum and Solana, or any other…
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): It's not equally viable, because you're
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): trust-minimized bridging between a rollup and Ethereum L1, whereas you stand no chance of having trust-minimized bridging between a non-roll-up and the L1.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: But if you're routing all of your messages through the L1, through Ethereum, you will have really high latency. And so you either choose real-time asynchronous message passing, which is not passed through the L1, and so you do have some trust assumptions.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: or you press it through the L1, and then you have, for the very least, 12-second latency between messages today.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: Or 6 message… 6-second message latency in the future, hopefully, when we shorten, the, the slow times.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: You won't, you won't…
noahpravecek: You don't have long latency, though.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): ML2, you don't need to wait. Like, it's… Sorry? Sync versus async is merely about the DevEx.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): Like, it's better Devix for synchrony.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): Right? But if you are able to ZK prove an L2 in 6 seconds on average, you can go instantly. The L2 just needs to react together with the L1 to be able to have a view that's current into the L1. Like, these are orthogonal questions, let's not confuse the different dimensions.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: No, but it's not exactly the same, because if you want to have ZK proofs, you need to settle them. It's not just enough to have a ZK proof of something.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: Especially in the way roll-ups are built today. You have to settle them first in order to have that finality you want.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): No, no, no, you need to be able to create a proof that's gonna cost sufficiently little gas on the L1 that you'd be able to afford posting it on every block.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: I agree, but then you're tying yourself with latency of the L1, and again, every message is…
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: But that's a really big thing. Like, if you need to… every message to wait 6 seconds, it's really a lot of time. And that's thing number one. Thing number two is, not a single contract today on Ethereum is built for asynchronous message passing. All of them are built for synchronous…
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): That's a possibility. Advantage, yes.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: Yeah, but that's part of the single execution, right, for Ethereum. Is Ethereum one big thing or not? And so, I'm not… again, I'm not against asynchronous matches passing. I think there's a lot of value to it in specific things.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: Interop is not one solution. As anything in life, you probably need a tiered system to solve interop.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: But I think that it goes beyond what we're trying to focus here on use cases, flash loans, not flash loans. It's about DevEx and UX.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: what exactly are the story we're telling for our users? When they move between Arbitrum and Base, are they moving between two different chains, or they're moving between two domains within an Ethereum ecosystem? That's a really important philosophical question to ask.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: And I think that, again, I… I'm going back to the example I gave before, 10-point arc.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: I think those are cautionary tales we need to take into consideration, because it's very hard to launch an L2, and so the difference between launching an L1 and an L2 is very minimal today. And the reason why is because there is no composability to speak on, in the sense that if I'm launching an L2, I'm alone, I'm an island.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: And it shouldn't be the case. And so it goes back to UX, DevEx, L2, innovation, and competitors.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: how contracts interact with other contracts. All of those things speak synchronous compulability.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: And I do urge everyone to kind of
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: I know it's a lot of time, but sequence composability came a really long way since, you know, two years ago, or even 1 year ago.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: And so, not all of those assumptions are correct anymore. I think that we simplified a lot of different things, and we're continuing to simplify things.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: Even to… even, like, the past week, we internally found a way to move assets without wrapping them. So, for example, moving USDC between roll-ups without wrapping it, using really interesting, kind of, liquidity provisions on a bunch of roll-ups, and because you have atomicity, you can do that. Without atomicity, you cannot.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: Things are improving all the time.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: kind of my kind of thing that I wanted to kind of do is to make everyone aware of the advancements, and also
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: Allocate time and resources to continue developing it, because this, in my opinion, this is a really important
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: component of future Ethereum we should, we should kind of consider.
Joshua Rudolf: So we're running out of time here. I think this is a great discussion. I would love to continue it.
Joshua Rudolf: Yeah, I think there's no question that this is worth more investment, exploration, discussion. I agree with Alan, your earlier point, that interop is almost certainly sort of a multi-tiered, or require a multi-tiered solution. There's not going to be a single thing that comes in as a silver bullet that magically solves Interop for Ethereum.
Joshua Rudolf: Maybe, but I haven't seen it yet.
Joshua Rudolf: And, yes, to me, there's no question that we need to better, yeah, continue to explore things here, so I'm very grateful to have you and everyone else on this call that is pushing us in this direction. I think we should keep pushing here.
Joshua Rudolf: And I think we need to maybe continue to better, at least from my perspective, better define the things that are really, truly only possible, in this synchronous world. And it's, like, it goes into this sort of broader philosophical and…
Joshua Rudolf: prioritization, I think this is kind of where it starts to get a little bit messy of a conversation, but, I would love to continue the conversation, so…
Joshua Rudolf: Yeah, let's do it.
Joshua Rudolf: Any, any other quick final thoughts?
Joshua Rudolf: Otherwise, we can end it there.
Joshua Rudolf: Awesome. Okay, well, thanks so much, thanks for the new people joining, and yeah, we'll see you all on the next call.
noahpravecek: Thanks.
Alon Muroch | SSVLabs: Thank you.
Joshua Rudolf: Bye, guys. Bye.
John Church: Thank you, everyone.
Anjan (Avail): Thank you, bye-bye.
Premm.eth: Bye.